

    
    
    
    
    Solana Triangular Arbitrage Strategy

    This document describes the Solana-only Triangular Arbitrage strategy in the TradeMonitor platform. It is intended for developers integrating or maintaining this strategy module. The strategy focuses on identifying and executing triangular arbitrage opportunities involving three tokens on Solana decentralized exchanges (DEXs) within a single blockchain. In essence, it looks for a cycle of trades (A?B, B?C, C?A) that starts and ends with the same asset and yields a net profit. As the TradeMonitor documentation highlights, triangular arbitrage involves multi-hop trades within a single exchange (for example, SOL ? USDC ? BONK ? SOL)[1]. The strategy operates in real-time with risk controls to ensure safe and efficient trading.

    
    StrategyContext

    StrategyContext defines the parameters and environment that the TradeMonitor bot provides to the triangular arbitrage strategy. These parameters serve as the contract between the bot (or platform) and the strategy, ensuring the strategy adheres to the bot's configuration and risk constraints. Below are the key parameters and settings the strategy uses from the bot's configuration (via IStrategyConfiguration):

    SupportedExchanges – The list of Solana DEX integrations the strategy will monitor and trade on. For this Solana-only strategy, these are typically the Solana DEX connectors (e.g. "RAYDIUM", "ORCA", "JUPITER", "METEORA")[2]. Only these exchanges will be queried for prices and used for executing the arbitrage cycle.

    SupportedTokens – The set of tokens to consider in forming arbitrage cycles[2]. This acts as a token whitelist or filter. The strategy will only evaluate cycles involving these tokens. If unspecified, a default list (often major tokens or those with sufficient liquidity) may be used. This prevents scanning the entire universe of tokens and focuses on likely candidates.

    MinimumProfitThreshold – The minimum net profit required (as a fraction of trade amount or percentage) for an opportunity to be considered worthwhile[2]. This threshold (e.g. 0.005 for 0.5%) ensures that after accounting for fees and slippage, the cycle yields a meaningful profit. Opportunities with estimated profit below this are ignored.

    MinTradeAmount – The minimum trade size (in the base currency or USD equivalent) to execute[2]. This avoids acting on very small opportunities that would not cover fees or would be negligible. For example, if MinTradeAmount is 10.0, the strategy will not initiate cycles involving less than $10 worth of the starting token.

    MaxTradeAmount – The maximum trade size the strategy is allowed to use[2]. This caps exposure per trade. It is a risk control to avoid putting too much capital in one cycle. The strategy will not trade more than this amount of the initial token in any arbitrage cycle.

    MaxExecutionTimeSeconds – The maximum allowed time (in seconds) to execute the full cycle of trades[2]. If the arbitrage cannot be executed within this time (for example, due to network latency or transaction processing time), it will be aborted. This prevents the strategy from hanging or pursuing stale opportunities. On Solana, transactions are fast (usually a few seconds or less), so this is mainly a safeguard for abnormal delays.

    SlippageTolerance – (Derived from risk settings) The acceptable price slippage for each trade, typically expressed as a percentage. For example, a tolerance of 0.5% means the executed price can deviate up to 0.5% from the expected price before the trade is considered too risky. This parameter may not be explicitly in the JSON config, but is part of the platform’s risk management (as “Slippage Protection”)[3]. The strategy adheres to this by setting limit prices or minimum output amounts on swaps to ensure slippage stays within bounds.

    Risk Controls – The strategy context also includes global risk management settings from the bot. These include features like trade size limits, execution timeouts, confidence thresholds, circuit breakers, and position limits[3]. The triangular arbitrage strategy will honor these contracts. For instance, it will not exceed the configured MaxConcurrentTrades (often 1, to avoid self-competition) and will respect any circuit breaker triggers (e.g. pausing if too many failures or if market conditions become erratic).

    All these parameters form the operating context for the strategy. The TradeMonitor bot injects this context when initializing the strategy (via dependency injection and the ITradingStrategy interface), ensuring the strategy's behavior conforms to the specified configuration. In summary, StrategyContext is the complete set of guidelines (the "contract") that the strategy adheres to, including which exchanges and tokens to use, what profit to target, how much to trade, and what risk limits to respect.

    
    
    Risk Profiles and Parameter Recommendations

    The triangular arbitrage strategy’s effectiveness and risk exposure can be tuned via its parameters. We group typical configurations into three risk profiles – Low-Risk, Medium-Risk, and High-Risk. Each profile represents a trade-off between caution and aggressiveness. Below we define all major parameters in the context of each risk profile and provide recommendations for their values and usage.

    
    Low-Risk Settings

    A low-risk configuration prioritizes capital preservation and consistency over chasing every profit. It uses conservative parameters to ensure only the most certain arbitrage opportunities are taken:

    SupportedTokens: Restrict to highly liquid, stable assets. Recommended to include only major tokens and stablecoins (e.g. SOL, USDC, USDT, perhaps wETH or mSOL). Exclude volatile or low-liquidity tokens. This limits cycles to well-established markets, reducing the chance of sudden price swings or rug-pulls. For example, a low-risk token list might be ["SOL", "USDC", "USDT", "ETH"] and omit smaller caps like BONK or new tokens.

    SupportedExchanges: Use only the most reliable exchanges with deep liquidity. All Solana DEX connectors (Raydium, Orca, Jupiter, Meteora) are generally reputable[4], but a low-risk user might choose to exclude any experimental platforms and primarily use aggregator (Jupiter) or the largest AMMs (Raydium/Orca) for execution. The idea is to avoid less-tested venues. By default, using the full set of major Solana DEXs is acceptable since those listed are well-established.

    MinimumProfitThreshold: High threshold to ensure a substantial buffer. For low-risk, one might set a higher minimum profit, such as 1% (0.01) or even more, depending on fees. This means the strategy will only act on cycles that promise at least ~1% profit after accounting for fees. A higher threshold filters out borderline opportunities that could turn unprofitable with minor slippage. It essentially demands a big enough arbitrage gap that even if execution isn’t perfect, it remains profitable[5].

    MaxTradeAmount: Limit trade size to a relatively small amount. This could be a fixed small amount (for example, equivalent of $50 or $100 in SOL) or a small percentage of the portfolio. A smaller trade size reduces impact on the market (minimizing additional slippage) and limits loss in case something goes wrong. It’s better to secure small profits consistently than risk a large trade in low-risk mode. For instance, if the bot’s capital is large, it might still only use at most 1-2% of it per cycle in low-risk.

    MinTradeAmount: Ensure a reasonable floor, such as $10 or $20, so that the trade covers transaction costs. However, in low-risk mode this is usually not a critical setting beyond avoiding dust trades, since we’re anyway focusing on larger, high-confidence opportunities. A value around the equivalent of $10 is common (as seen in the default config snippet)[2], which prevents chasing arbitrage that yields only pennies.

    MaxExecutionTimeSeconds: Use a strict timeout, possibly very low (e.g. 10 seconds). Low-risk profile does not tolerate prolonged execution since markets can move. On Solana, transactions typically settle in a second or two; a 10-second timeout is mostly to catch any unexpected delays. By keeping it low, if the network or exchange is lagging, the strategy will abort rather than risk a stale trade. (The default 30s could be shortened in low-risk scenarios).

    SlippageTolerance: Very tight slippage tolerance, such as 0.2%–0.5% maximum. This ensures the trade will only execute at near-expected prices. In practice, the strategy will configure each swap with a minimum acceptable output such that if the price moves more than this tolerance, the swap fails (protecting the bot). Low tolerance means if the market price changes even slightly against us, the trade aborts to prevent loss[6]. While this may cause some missed opportunities (if the trade fails due to minor moves), it guards against scenarios where the profit could be wiped out by price impact.

    Confidence and Safety Checks: Low-risk setups might employ additional checks such as requiring confirmation from multiple data sources or a high confidence score before trading[3]. For example, the strategy could verify that order book depth is sufficient at each leg, and that no rapid adverse price movement occurred in the last few seconds. It might also prefer cycles where the profit is not only above threshold but also far exceeds estimated transaction costs by a comfortable margin (ensuring a cushion).

    With these low-risk settings, the strategy will only act on clearly profitable triangular arbitrage opportunities involving very liquid tokens and markets. It will trade relatively small amounts and will quickly back out if conditions are not perfect. This results in fewer trades but a high success rate. Developers implementing this should ensure the strategy logs or reports when it skips opportunities due to strict thresholds, so that it's clear it's functioning as intended (not simply missing trades).

    
    
    Medium-Risk Settings

    A medium-risk profile balances caution with opportunity. It loosens some constraints to capture more arbitrage instances, while still applying reasonable safety measures:

    SupportedTokens: Include a broader selection of tokens beyond just the top-tier. In addition to majors and stables, medium-risk can incorporate mid-cap tokens or popular ecosystem tokens on Solana (for example, adding tokens like BONK, SRM, RAY, mSOL, etc., which have decent liquidity). The list might expand to dozens of tokens that the user deems trustworthy. However, extremely illiquid or obscure tokens should still be excluded. The idea is to widen the universe to find more cycles, but remain within assets that have active markets.

    SupportedExchanges: Utilize all supported Solana DEXs and aggregators by default[7]. Medium-risk mode will typically leverage Raydium, Orca, Jupiter, and Meteora fully. Each cycle can happen within one of these exchanges (the strategy may evaluate each exchange separately for triangular opportunities). By including aggregator (Jupiter), the strategy might also benefit from best-price routing for each leg, though it will treat Jupiter itself as an exchange endpoint. Essentially, medium-risk trusts the integrated exchanges and does not exclude any, as all four provide substantial liquidity on Solana.

    MinimumProfitThreshold: Moderate threshold, e.g. 0.5% (0.005) by default[2]. This is typically the platform’s default for arbitrage strategies and represents a middle-ground. At ~0.5% expected profit, the strategy will consider opportunities that have a smaller margin. This allows capturing more frequent (but smaller) arbitrage gaps. It still provides some buffer for fees and minor price movement, but not as large as low-risk demands. Medium-risk assumes not every trade will be perfect, but overall the wins should outweigh any small losses if this threshold is carefully chosen. The exact value can be tuned; some might use 0.3% or 0.2% if they want even more hits, but 0.5% is a reasonable starting point.

    MaxTradeAmount: Set to a moderate value, which could be a higher absolute amount than low-risk. For example, allow up to $500 or $1000 worth of the base token per cycle (depending on portfolio size). The default shown in docs is 100.0 (units) which might correspond to $100 if units are 1=1 USD (or 100 SOL if it's in SOL? likely USD equivalent)[2]. In medium risk, you might increase this to allow larger trades when liquidity permits, because a slightly higher risk tolerance means you are willing to trade bigger size to get higher absolute profit. However, it's wise to still relate this to market depth; e.g., don’t trade more than, say, 5% of the lowest pool liquidity among the three legs to avoid excessive slippage.

    MinTradeAmount: Keep around the default (e.g. $10). This just filters out dust. Medium-risk might opportunistically even take very small profits if the threshold allows, but those typically correspond to somewhat larger trade sizes anyway. There’s usually no need to raise the minimum amount; if anything, some might lower it to catch small profitable cycles, but trading extremely small size isn't efficient due to fixed costs (like transaction fees, though on Solana those are minimal). Generally, keep min amount similar (~10).

    MaxExecutionTimeSeconds: Around the default of 30 seconds[2]. Medium-risk might allow a bit more leeway than low-risk, but it's uncommon for a Solana transaction to require that long unless waiting for multiple confirmations. A 30s timeout is already conservative; practically the trade will be done in <5s or not at all. If using an aggregator or splitting into multiple transactions, maybe a few seconds per leg. In medium risk, it's acceptable to use the standard timeout, ensuring that if something weird is happening (exchange API slow or blockchain congestion), the opportunity is dropped after half a minute at most. The slight risk here is that prices can change within those seconds; however, the slippage protection (still in place) will typically handle that.

    SlippageTolerance: Medium tolerance, e.g. 0.5%–1%. This means the strategy is willing to accept up to ~1% price movement during execution. Many arbitrage bots use ~1% as a cap for slippage on DEX trades[6]. At medium risk, we can set tolerance around that range. This gives some room for the market to move or for the trade itself to impact the price (since our trade might shift the pool price), without aborting. It increases the chance that the trade goes through, but also slightly increases the chance that the actual profit realized is lower than expected. With a 0.5% profit threshold, allowing up to 1% slippage might seem high (you could end up with no profit if full slippage hits); therefore, a common practice is to set slippage tolerance equal to or smaller than the profit threshold. For example, if threshold 0.5%, one might use 0.3% slippage tolerance to ensure net positive outcome. The exact tuning can be adjusted based on observation of how volatile the pools are during execution. Medium-risk implies you're comfortable that not every trade will hit the maximum slippage, and some trades might end up break-even, trusting that on average the strategy gains.

    Additional Risk Measures: Medium-risk can implement some dynamic adjustments. For instance, it might attempt slightly larger trades on higher liquidity tokens and smaller on lower liquidity. It may also use a confidence score for each opportunity (as mentioned in the platform features) and only execute if the confidence is above a moderate level[3]. Confidence could be based on how stable the prices have been or how much the order book can support the trade size. While low-risk might require very high confidence (almost arbitrage surety), medium-risk will take medium confidence opportunities. The strategy might also track success rate of recent trades – if a few trades in a row failed or yielded less profit than expected, it could temporarily tighten thresholds or sizes (a mild form of a circuit breaker) to recalibrate.

    In summary, medium-risk settings allow the triangular arbitrage strategy to engage more frequently and with larger size than low-risk, but still within controlled parameters. Developers should ensure the system monitors the P&L of the strategy to validate that the chosen threshold and slippage settings indeed result in net positive performance over many cycles. Adjustments can then be made to thresholds if the realized profit is consistently lower than expected due to slippage or fees.

    
    
    High-Risk Settings

    A high-risk profile aims to maximize the number of arbitrage opportunities captured and the profit per trade, at the cost of higher exposure and potential for trades that break even or even lose slightly if things go wrong. This configuration is aggressive and should be used by experienced operators who understand the risks. Recommended high-risk parameter settings:

    SupportedTokens: Broadest token selection. In high-risk mode, the strategy can include many tokens, even volatile or lesser-known ones, as long as they are available on the supported exchanges. This might include newly listed tokens, volatile meme coins, or illiquid pairs. For example, one could allow the strategy to pull token lists from the exchange APIs or a token database (like token_metadata.sql in the project) and include anything that has at least two trading pairs (so it can form a triangle). The rationale is to catch arbitrage in long-tail assets where price disparities might be larger. However, including very illiquid tokens means the strategy must be careful – large price impact or inability to execute the full cycle are real concerns. It's wise to implement additional checks (like ensuring a minimum liquidity or volume for any token before trading it, even if high-risk).

    SupportedExchanges: All Solana DEX integrations are utilized, without exception[4]. High-risk might even integrate any new Solana DEX as soon as it's available. The strategy will scan across Raydium, Orca, Jupiter, Meteora, and any future Solana exchange connectors added. If the strategy is capable of mixing exchanges in one cycle (see Cycle Detection below), high-risk would allow that (though the triangular strategy as defined typically sticks to one exchange at a time). Essentially, high-risk trusts the platform to use whichever venue yields a theoretical profit, even if it’s a smaller or more volatile exchange, in pursuit of more opportunities.

    MinimumProfitThreshold: Low threshold, possibly 0.1% (0.001) or similarly small. Some high-frequency arbitrage bots might even attempt to capture profit margins on the order of a few basis points if they have minimal fees. Since TradeMonitor by default might have had 0.5% for a balanced approach, a high-risk configuration could drop this significantly. By setting a low threshold, the strategy will trigger on very thin arbitrage opportunities – basically anything that is positive after estimated fees. The assumption in high-risk mode is that even if each trade nets a tiny percentage, the sheer volume of trades and speed can compound profits (provided transaction costs are low, which on Solana they are). Important: If setting such a low threshold, it’s crucial that slippage and fees are accounted for accurately, because a 0.1% theoretical profit can turn into a loss with even 0.2% slippage. High-risk mode accepts this chance, hoping that on average, some cycles will yield small profits and the occasional losers are offset by winners. It essentially operates near the edge of profitability.

    MaxTradeAmount: High cap on trade size. Depending on available capital, high-risk might utilize a much larger portion of the portfolio per trade. For instance, it could allow a single cycle to use up to 10% of the total capital or an absolute number in the thousands of dollars range. The idea is that when a big arbitrage opportunity presents itself (especially on mid or small-cap tokens where the percentage disparity might be large), the bot can capitalize on it fully. However, this also means if something goes wrong on a large trade, the losses could be significant. A practical approach is to tie MaxTradeAmount to liquidity – e.g., set it to a value that is, say, 10% of the lowest pool liquidity among the three pairs involved, or some fraction of 24h volume. In code, you might dynamically decide trade size rather than a static max, but the config can set an upper hard limit (like “don’t ever trade more than $5000 in one cycle” or similar). High-risk pushes this limit higher than in other profiles.

    MinTradeAmount: Possibly very low (even $1 or less) – essentially no minimum. The strategy might attempt even tiny arbitrages if they're positive. For example, if an opportunity exists to turn $1 into $1.001, a high-risk setup might go for it (the profit is negligible alone, but if many such opportunities exist and there's no harm, it might add up). In practice, extremely small trades might be avoided simply because of practical issues (some exchanges have minimum order sizes or the transaction fee might become a factor), but the point is high-risk won't filter out opportunities due to small size alone.

    MaxExecutionTimeSeconds: Could remain at default (30s) or even be increased if one thinks larger trades might require more time (though on Solana, increasing beyond 30s usually isn't necessary). Generally, high-risk is more about relaxing financial constraints than timing constraints. It’s more important in high-risk to ensure the transaction gets into the blockchain quickly (maybe by paying a priority fee if needed) rather than to allow it to linger. So, 30s is fine; one could keep it or slightly reduce it to encourage faster failure if something’s stuck. The key is to ensure fast execution; using Solana’s high throughput is an advantage. In code, this might mean using faster websockets for price data and sending transactions via a high-performance RPC node (possibly an MEV-aware node like Jito for priority).

    SlippageTolerance: High tolerance, such as 1% or even 2% in some cases. High-risk profile is willing to absorb more slippage in pursuit of a trade. For instance, if an arbitrage looks profitable by 0.8%, a high-risk trader might still execute with 2% slippage allowed, effectively gambling that actual slippage will be less and that maybe the initial calculation underestimated profit or volume available. This is dangerous – a 2% slippage could wipe out a 0.8% theoretical profit and result in a loss. Therefore, this parameter in high-risk mode might be set depending on the magnitude of arbitrage gaps typically targeted. If high-risk is often chasing >1% gaps (which might be the case for smaller tokens), then a 1-2% tolerance might be justified to ensure the trade doesn't fail due to minor order book moves. Another approach is dynamic slippage: e.g., allow slippage up to, say, half of the expected profit margin. So if an opportunity shows 3% profit, allow up to 1.5% slippage; if it's 0.5% profit, allow only 0.25%. Such dynamic logic can be implemented for safety. In general, though, high-risk will put a larger static cap. The platform’s risk management note of “route abandonment on excessive slippage” still holds[6] – meaning even high-risk should define what "excessive" is, albeit at a higher threshold.

    Other Aggressive Behaviors: High-risk mode might attempt simultaneous or overlapping trades if multiple opportunities exist. For example, if two separate token cycles are both profitable, a high-risk bot might run them concurrently, whereas low-risk would do one at a time to avoid any resource contention or errors. The MaxConcurrentTrades could be set to a higher number (maybe 2 or 3) when in high-risk, though one must be careful since concurrent Solana transactions from the same bot might contend for the same account (like the source token account) or for signing. Still, the platform allows multiple bot instances or threads, so high-risk might effectively run as fast as possible. Another high-risk tweak is lowering any confidence requirements – essentially taking the first signal of an arbitrage without double-checking. Where a low-risk strategy might re-fetch order books to confirm, high-risk might just act on the first price snapshot that indicates profit, to beat competitors (but risking that the snapshot was stale or wrong).

    Circuit Breakers: Interestingly, even a high-risk strategy should have some ultimate stop conditions to avoid catastrophic loss. For instance, if a certain number of trades in a row result in negative profit (maybe due to consistent front-running or price volatility), the strategy could pause. TradeMonitor’s risk management includes circuit breakers and stop-loss mechanisms[3]. In high-risk mode, you might configure these to trigger less often (i.e., allow more failures before stopping) compared to low-risk. But they should not be disabled entirely. A possible setting: if net P&L drops by more than, say, 5% of capital in a short period, trigger a breaker to reevaluate conditions before continuing.

    Overall, a high-risk profile should be used with caution. It can yield higher profits by capturing nearly every arbitrage and using larger trades, but it is also more vulnerable to execution risks and market shifts. Developers should implement extensive logging and perhaps even sandbox testing for these settings: simulate how the strategy would perform on historical data or in dry-run mode before letting it trade real funds on high-risk. Additionally, monitoring is key – one should watch the success rate of the cycles and adjust parameters if too many trades are failing or yielding losses.

    
    
    
    Purpose and Scope of the Strategy

    The purpose of the Solana Triangular Arbitrage strategy is to exploit pricing inefficiencies between multiple trading pairs on Solana DEXs and earn a risk-free (or minimal risk) profit. It continuously monitors the Solana markets for a set of tokens and identifies opportunities where a sequence of three trades can result in a net increase of the starting asset. The strategy specifically focuses on opportunities within the Solana blockchain, not involving any cross-chain transfers or centralized exchanges. By limiting scope to one chain (Solana), the strategy benefits from Solana’s fast block times and low transaction costs to execute arbitrage very quickly.

    Scope: This strategy operates only on decentralized exchanges available on Solana (as opposed to the cross-exchange arbitrage strategy which might involve different blockchains or CEX vs DEX price differences). It assumes the trades in the cycle can be executed back-to-back (ideally atomically) on Solana. The strategy leverages the TradeMonitor platform's real-time market data feeds and execution engine[8] to perform analysis and trading in a tight loop (often every few seconds or faster).

    Key points in the scope include: - It uses three-leg trading cycles (triangles) where the start and end asset are the same. For example, starting with SOL and going through USDC and BONK to end up with more SOL[1]. It will not pursue two-leg arbitrage (that would be covered by cross-exchange or two-hop strategies) or arbitrages involving more than three assets (which are rare and outside the classic triangular definition). - The strategy is self-contained on Solana – it does not interact with other blockchains. All tokens involved must be Solana SPL tokens, and all exchanges are Solana-based. This avoids bridge delays or cross-chain transfer fees. - It is intended to run as a module in the TradeMonitor bot framework. The strategy implements the ITradingStrategy interface, meaning it provides an AnalyzeMarketAsync (or similar) method that the bot calls on each cycle of the bot’s loop[9]. The bot provides the strategy with fresh market data for Solana DEXs, and the strategy returns either an opportunity or null. - Performance considerations: Because Solana markets can update very quickly and arbitrage opportunities can disappear in seconds, the strategy is designed to be efficient. The scope includes utilizing the platform’s real-time monitoring (with millisecond precision data updates)[10]. It likely uses in-memory data or streamlined algorithms to scan for cycles quickly each tick. Complex calculations are optimized (using graph algorithms, see below) so that detection does not become a bottleneck. - Execution: The strategy’s scope ends at identifying a profitable cycle and preparing the trade instructions. Actual trade execution is handled by the TradeMonitor core services (via exchange service clients). The strategy ensures the opportunity it identifies includes all necessary details for execution (trading pairs, amounts, order types), and the platform’s execution logic will then perform the swaps, either as a single transaction or sequentially. The strategy itself does not handle the mechanics of sending transactions (it calls out to ITradeExecutionService or similar for that)[11]. - Risk Management: Part of the strategy’s scope is to incorporate risk checks (as configured by StrategyContext). This includes verifying that the expected profit exceeds the threshold, that slippage is within tolerance, etc., which are integral to the strategy logic (not left entirely to a separate risk module). In effect, the strategy only presents opportunities to the bot that already satisfy the basic risk filters, acting as a first line of defense. The broader platform then provides a second layer of enforcement (e.g., final slippage check during execution, circuit breaker if many fail, etc.).

    To summarize purpose and scope: This strategy aims to provide an automated, fast, and safe arbitrage detection mechanism on Solana DEXs. It stays within the Solana ecosystem, leveraging the platform’s capabilities to continuously hunt for triangular price discrepancies. Developers integrating this strategy should ensure it runs with up-to-date Solana market data and that the bot is configured with appropriate parameters (as discussed) for the intended risk level. When tuned correctly, the scope of this strategy is such that it can systematically generate profits from market inefficiencies with minimal manual intervention, while containing risk through the controls described.

    
    
    Supported Exchanges

    The Solana Triangular Arbitrage strategy works with decentralized exchange integrations available on the Solana network. In TradeMonitor, exchanges are abstracted via IExchangeService implementations, and this strategy can utilize any exchange service that provides Solana token swap functionality. The supported exchanges (as of writing) for Solana include:

    Raydium: A popular automated market maker (AMM) on Solana that also interfaces with the central Serum order book for liquidity. Raydium provides swap pools for many token pairs and has deep liquidity in mainstream markets. The strategy can source pricing from Raydium’s pools and execute swaps via Raydium’s API/program. Raydium is known for having a wide range of trading pairs, often with USDC or USDT as base pairs, and even some direct token-to-token pools. Because Raydium ties into Serum, it effectively also gives access to Serum order book trades for certain markets (through its interface).

    Orca: Another major AMM on Solana known for its simple swaps and concentrated liquidity pools (Whirlpools). Orca offers liquidity for many Solana token pairs as well. It might not have as many obscure tokens as Raydium, but it has significant volume in core pairs and some unique pools. The strategy includes Orca in scanning, meaning it will pull Orca pool prices and can execute on Orca when it finds a favorable cycle. For example, Orca might have a pool for Token X/SOL and Token X/USDC; a triangle could be formed that involves swapping on Orca pools exclusively if the prices misalign.

    Jupiter: A DEX aggregator on Solana that routes trades across multiple liquidity sources to find the best price. In TradeMonitor, Jupiter is treated as an exchange service (aggregator category)[4]. While Jupiter itself is not a liquidity source, it can split or route a swap through various AMMs/order books. For the triangular arbitrage strategy, Jupiter can serve two roles:

    Price source: The strategy could query Jupiter for a quote from Token A to Token B to get the best available rate across all DEXs (rather than manually checking each DEX). This could simplify the detection logic by leveraging Jupiter’s route finding. For instance, to evaluate the conversion rate from SOL to USDC, Jupiter might combine multiple pools to give an effective rate. However, for detecting a triangle, the strategy might need more granular control (to ensure you end up back at the start token).

    Execution venue: The strategy can use Jupiter to execute a multi-hop trade in one go. Jupiter’s API allows specifying an input token, output token, and it finds the optimal path (which could be one hop or multiple). In some cases, a triangular arbitrage could potentially be executed as a single Jupiter swap if Jupiter supports specifying intermediate hops. More likely, the strategy will treat each leg as a separate Jupiter query or use Jupiter for one leg and direct DEX for another, etc., depending on design. But since Jupiter connects to virtually all Solana liquidity (including Raydium, Serum, Orca, and others), it’s a powerful tool. The strategy includes it to ensure no opportunity is missed that might require combining liquidity from different platforms.

    Meteora: A newer Solana liquidity hub and DEX (sometimes described as a dynamic market maker). Meteora provides unique automated market-making with yield-generating strategies for LPs. It also has swap pools (and is connected to Jupiter aggregator as well)[12]. For our strategy, Meteora is another exchange to check. It may have certain pools that differ in pricing from Raydium/Orca, creating arbitrage possibilities. For example, if Meteora’s SOL/USDC price drifts slightly from Raydium’s SOL/USDC price, a triangular cycle might be possible by involving an asset that connects them. The strategy’s exchange service for Meteora allows fetching its pool prices and executing swaps on it, similar to the other AMMs.

    (Planned or Additional): The documentation also lists Ethereum DEXs (Uniswap, etc.) and other chains as planned, but those are outside the scope of Solana-only strategy[13]. We focus only on the above Solana exchanges. If in future more Solana DEXs are integrated (for instance, Serum direct integration, or other AMMs like Aldrin, Saber for stable swaps, etc.), they could be added to SupportedExchanges. At the time of this writing, Raydium, Orca, Jupiter, and Meteora cover a broad range of Solana liquidity venues.

    Each of these exchanges has its own characteristics (AMM vs order-book, fee structure, liquidity depth). The triangular arbitrage strategy is designed to be agnostic to the specifics by using the exchange service interfaces. It obtains normalized market data (prices, available liquidity) from each exchange service[14]. The strategy might compare rates across exchanges when constructing cycles. However, important to note: the current strategy is primarily intended to find triangular opportunities within a single exchange environment[1] (as per the use-case definition). This typically means all three trades of a cycle happen on one exchange. For example, a triangle entirely on Raydium pools, or entirely on Orca pools. The reason is that within one exchange, execution can often be atomic or at least easier to synchronize (especially if that exchange is an aggregator like Jupiter that can route the sub-swaps).

    That said, there is nothing preventing the strategy from finding a cycle that spans exchanges (e.g., SOL?USDC on Raydium, USDC?TokenX on Orca, TokenX?SOL on Raydium). This would effectively be an inter-exchange arbitrage but still on the same chain. The TriangularArbitrageStrategy in TradeMonitor might or might not support multi-exchange cycles by default. If it doesn’t, those would be left for CrossExchangeArbitrageStrategy. If it does, it would leverage Jupiter or manual multi-instruction transactions to execute. In either case, the supported exchanges listed above are the sources of price data and execution for any cycle.

    Developer note: Ensure that API credentials or RPC endpoints for each of these exchanges are configured (if required). Raydium and Orca may just need on-chain data (which can be fetched via RPC calls to the Solana network to read pools or via their REST endpoints). Jupiter has a public API for quotes. Meteora likely has its own API or on-chain program interface. The TradeMonitor platform likely already includes the integration code; developers just need to confirm these services are enabled and that the SupportedExchanges config includes the correct identifiers (as shown in JSON config, e.g., "SupportedExchanges": ["RAYDIUM", "ORCA", ...])[15]. This way, the strategy will actively pull data from all of them.

    
    
    Token Filtering Logic

    An essential part of the strategy is deciding which tokens to include in the search for arbitrage cycles. Checking every possible token on Solana would be computationally infeasible and likely unproductive, so the strategy employs a token filtering logic to build manageable token lists. Here’s how the token filtering works and how the token lists are constructed:
1. 
    Configured Token List: The primary filter is the SupportedTokens parameter provided in the strategy context[15]. If the user or configuration specifies a list of tokens, the strategy will only consider those tokens. For example, if SupportedTokens = ["SOL", "USDC", "BONK", "WIF"] as in the config snippet, the strategy limits itself to these and will find triangles composed of any three from that set[2]. This gives the user direct control – you can whitelist the tokens of interest. Typically, a user might put a curated list of, say, the top 20 market-cap tokens on Solana plus a few others, to focus on likely opportunities.
2. 
    Token Universe from Exchanges: If SupportedTokens is not explicitly set, the strategy can derive a token list from the exchanges themselves. Each exchange integration can provide a list of markets or pools it supports. For instance, Raydium might list all token symbols of its pools, Orca the same, etc. The strategy could aggregate these to know which tokens are actively traded on at least one of the supported exchanges. However, using the full union of all traded tokens could be huge (Solana DEXs have hundreds of tokens). Thus, additional filtering steps are applied:
3. 
    Liquidity/Volume Filter: The strategy may filter out tokens with very low liquidity or trading volume. A practical approach is to use a threshold: e.g., exclude any token whose 24h volume is below X, or whose largest pool liquidity is below Y. This prevents wasting time on tokens that are technically traded but not meaningful for arbitrage (because any attempt to trade them would move the price too much or one leg of the triangle might not execute due to lack of counterparties). If the platform has a database of token metadata (as hinted by token_metadata.sql in the project) with info like average volume or maybe a “tradable” flag, that could be used to pre-filter tokens.
4. 
    Pairs Existence Filter: To form a triangle, a token must have at least two distinct trading pairs (with two different other tokens) on the exchange(s). If a token only trades against USDC, for example, and not against SOL or any other token, you cannot form a closed loop including it (you’d just have USDC?Token and Token?USDC which is two legs, not three distinct tokens). So the strategy will likely filter out tokens that don’t have the necessary connections. Typically, a triangle involves tokens A, B, C where markets exist for A-B, B-C, and C-A. If we choose any token, say X, it must have markets/pools with at least two other tokens in our list. If not, X cannot be in any triangle and can be dropped. For example, if a token only has a USDC pool and no other pairs, it’s not useful for triangular arb (it would be only reachable via USDC).
5. 
    Stablecoins and Base Tokens: Many Solana triangles use a stablecoin (USDC/USDT) or SOL as an intermediary because those are common quote currencies. The strategy might ensure those base tokens are always included if available. Conversely, if the user’s list omitted stablecoins, the strategy might implicitly include one or two base tokens to allow triangles to form. (In user-defined mode, we assume the user knows to include at least one common base like USDC; otherwise the number of possible triangles drops significantly).
6. 
    Risk-Based Filtering: As discussed in risk profiles, the token list can vary by risk appetite. The strategy might incorporate the risk profile to adjust the token universe dynamically:
7. 
    In a low-risk mode, after initial list from config/exchanges, it might remove tokens that are too volatile (maybe by checking historical volatility or classification like “stablecoin vs non-stablecoin”). It might also exclude tokens that have had known issues (like frequent trading halts or very large spreads).
8. 
    In high-risk mode, it could do the opposite: even if a token is volatile, if it has any volume and multiple pairs, include it. Possibly add newly listed tokens automatically if they appear on an exchange’s market list, since new listings can have big arbitrages early on.
9. 
    The strategy can be coded to reference a token risk metadata repository: for example, a table where tokens are tagged with risk levels. Then based on the chosen profile, it filters accordingly. If such data is not available, simpler heuristics like “include/exclude stablecoins” or “min liquidity” serve as proxies.
10. 
    Periodic Refresh: The token list is not necessarily static. The strategy could periodically refresh which tokens it’s considering. For instance, once a day or on some schedule, it may update the list of top-volume tokens from each exchange. In a long-running bot, this ensures if a new token becomes popular (high volume) or an old one becomes inactive, the strategy adapts. However, constant changes to token list during runtime can also cause churn. Many implementations simply use a fixed list per session (based on config or initial load) and require a restart or manual update to change it. TradeMonitor being a sophisticated platform might allow dynamic updates though.
11. 
    Example token filtering scenario: Suppose SupportedTokens is not explicitly set. The strategy queries Raydium and finds tokens [SOL, USDC, USDT, RAY, ORCA, mSOL, BTC, ETH, FIDA, ...] (many). It queries Orca and finds [SOL, USDC, USDT, ORCA, mSOL, ADA, STEP, ...], Jupiter essentially covers all, and Meteora might have [SOL, USDC, stSOL, ...]. It then intersects or unites these lists. Let’s say it decides on the union for maximum coverage. Now it has dozens of symbols. Next, it checks liquidity: maybe it knows from exchange data that some pools are extremely small (like a token that only has $1k liquidity total might be cut). It drops those. Then it checks pair connectivity: it sees that some token has only one pairing (maybe ORCA token only trades against SOL and USDC – actually ORCA trades with SOL and USDC, that’s two pairs so that’s okay; but a token like "XYZ" only trades against USDC and nothing else, so it can’t form a triangle because we would need XYZ-SOL or XYZ-something else for a third leg). That token gets dropped. The final list could be, say, 20 tokens that have multiple connections. Among these will be SOL, USDC (these two connect to almost everything), USDT, and a bunch of others that often pair with SOL or USDC. Now with these 20 tokens, the strategy proceeds to cycle detection.
12. 
    Maintaining a Graph of Tokens: Internally, the strategy might maintain a graph data structure of tokens and their trading connections (edges). This graph is constructed from the available trading pairs on each exchange. Filtering tokens essentially prunes this graph to a manageable size. If using a graph algorithm approach (as described later), having fewer nodes (tokens) makes the search faster (graph size is N tokens, edges are pairs). The complexity of brute-force checking all triangles is O(N^3) for N tokens, which grows quickly. But if N is, for example, 50 tokens, N^3 is 125k combinations, which is high but maybe feasible in a optimized C# loop given Solana data can be fetched quickly. If N is 200, N^3 is 8 million combos, likely too slow to do continuously. So filtering aims to keep N relatively low.
13. 
    Developer Tips: The token filtering logic is a critical performance tuning knob. If the strategy is running too slow (not scanning every tick in time), consider reducing the token list (tighter filters). Check the logs or metrics: if 90% of considered tokens never produce any arbitrage and have tiny volume, they are candidates to drop. Also, ensure that any changes to SupportedTokens in the config are being applied – the strategy should read from config on startup or on reconfiguration events. If the platform uses dependency injection for IStrategyConfiguration, verifying that SupportedTokens is correctly populated is important. If developers want to override token lists on the fly (for example, via an admin command to the bot), they should integrate that carefully to avoid modifying the list mid-calculation.

    In summary, the strategy builds its token list based on user input and sensible defaults (liquidity and connectivity criteria). This list of tokens is then used to generate candidate cycles for arbitrage. Proper token filtering ensures the strategy focuses on profitable opportunities and remains efficient.

    
    
    Cycle Detection Mechanics

    Cycle detection is the core of the triangular arbitrage strategy – this is the algorithm that combs through token prices and finds profitable loops. In this context, a "cycle" means starting from a token A, converting to B, then to C, and back to A, such that you end up with more A than you started with. Detecting such opportunities in a timely manner is non-trivial, but we can break down the mechanics of how the strategy does it:
1. 
    Market Data as a Graph: The strategy represents the available trades as a directed graph where nodes are tokens and edges represent a trade from one token to another at the current exchange rate. For each pair of tokens (X, Y) that can be traded on a given exchange, we have two directed edges: X?Y and Y?X (with weights equal to the price, e.g., how much Y per X for X?Y). This graph can be multi-graph if considering multiple exchanges separately (e.g., an edge for SOL->USDC on Raydium and another for SOL->USDC on Orca, if treating them distinctly). However, if the strategy limits to one exchange at a time, it would construct a graph per exchange. In either case, the goal is to find a loop A?B?C?A such that the product of the edge weights yields >1 (for a profit).
2. 
    Graph Search Algorithm: A naive approach is to try every possible triple of tokens from the filtered list and compute the outcome. This is feasible for smaller lists and might actually be implemented (three nested loops over tokens). Another approach is to use graph cycle detection algorithms:
3. 
    One classic method is using the Bellman-Ford algorithm on a transformed graph. By taking the negative logarithm of each exchange rate as the edge weight, a product greater than 1 becomes a sum less than 0 (since -log(product) < 0 means product > 1). Bellman-Ford can detect negative cycles in a directed graph[16]. In this scenario, a negative cycle corresponds to an arbitrage loop[17]. The strategy could run Bellman-Ford starting from each token (or a dummy source connecting to all tokens) to find any reachable negative cycle. This approach is efficient and can handle larger graphs systematically. However, implementing it requires careful handling of the precision and ensuring the graph weights incorporate fees, etc.
4. 
    Alternatively, a simpler approach given the small cycle length is to triple nested loop over distinct tokens A, B, C in the list (with A as the base). For each combination, do:

    get the price for A?B,

    get the price for B?C,

    get the price for C?A.

    Multiply these to see what 1 A yields after A?B?C?A. If > 1 (and above threshold), record this cycle as profitable. This approach is straightforward. If the token list after filtering is N tokens, there are about N(N-1)(N-2)/6 unique combinations of 3 tokens (ignoring order within the cycle, though order matters because different order yields different result if different pairs exist). Considering direction, one might also consider A?B?C?A vs A?C?B?A if both possible. But typically, if A?B?C?A is profitable, the reverse cycle A?C?B?A would not be (it would be losing equivalent because it’s just the inverse rates). The complexity is O(N^3). If N=20, that's 1140 combinations, very fast. If N=50, that's 19,600 combos, still fine. If N=100, that's 161,700, borderline but maybe okay if each check is constant time. If N were larger, you'd lean on the Bellman-Ford method which is O(N^2 * E) or so, which might be more efficient in dense graphs.
5. 
    The strategy likely uses one of these methods. Given the developer-focused nature, it might have an implementation of the graph method as it’s a known technique in arbitrage detection[18][16].
6. 
    Example: To illustrate, suppose we have tokens A, B, C in our list and on a certain exchange:

    Rate A?B = 2.0 (meaning 1 A = 2 B),

    Rate B?C = 3.0 (1 B = 3 C),

    Rate C?A = 0.15 (1 C = 0.15 A). If we multiply: 1 A ? 2 B ? 23 = 6 C ? 60.15 = 0.9 A. This yields 0.9 A for 1 A, a loss, so not an arbitrage. If instead C?A rate was 0.2 (1 C = 0.2 A), then: 1 A ? 2 B ? 6 C ? 6*0.2 = 1.2 A. Now that is 1.2x, a clear arbitrage (20% profit). The algorithm would catch that A?B?C?A yields >1. The graph method would do log: -log(2) + -log(3) + -log(0.2) = - (log2 + log3 + log0.2). log2?0.693, log3?1.099, log0.2?-1.609 (note log0.2 is negative). So - (0.693 + 1.099 - 1.609) = - (0.183) = -0.183, which is negative, indicating a negative cycle (profit).
7. 
    So essentially, the strategy checks for positive loops in terms of rates (or negative cycles in log terms). It looks for where if you start with 1 of some token, you end up with >1 of the same token after cycling through two others[18].
8. 
    Handling Multiple Exchanges: If the strategy is looking within one exchange at a time (most likely, since the config suggests focusing per exchange), it might run the above detection separately for each exchange:
9. 
    First, for Raydium: build graph of Raydium pairs, find cycles.
10. 
    Then for Orca: graph of Orca pools, find cycles.
11. 
    And so on for Jupiter and Meteora. If a profitable cycle is found on any, it’s considered an opportunity. If multiple exchanges have opportunities, it could even compare profit sizes or just return one (the platform might only handle one at a time unless multiple concurrency allowed). If the strategy were to consider mixing exchanges in one cycle, the graph would become multi-exchange. It could theoretically include edges from different exchanges – but then a cycle could involve an exchange switch mid-cycle. Executing that atomically is challenging (except via aggregator). Likely, the strategy confines a single arbitrage cycle to one exchange’s domain to ensure execution can be handled as one unit (like one transaction calling that exchange’s program or one Jupiter route).
12. 
    Fees and Rates Retrieval: When computing the conversion rates for each edge, the strategy will use effective rates after fees. Each DEX has a fee (for example, 0.25% trading fee on AMM swaps, etc.). The price or quote obtained should be net of fees. If the strategy fetches raw order book prices or pool ratios, it should factor in the fee deduction. For AMMs, the effective output amount formula inherently includes the fee. For order books, you might assume taking the best bid/ask which already has fee if any (on Serum, makers/takers fees would need to be considered). The strategy likely uses either direct API calls to get a quote (like “if I trade X amount of A to B, how much B do I get?”) rather than manual formula, especially with Jupiter where you can query best route. But in pure algorithm, you might do: price = (pool_y_balance/pool_x_balance) * (1 - fee) for AMM, etc. The crucial part is the cycle detection uses realizable conversion rates including fees.
13. 
    Considering Trade Size in Detection: Initially, the algorithm might assume an infinitesimal trade (just price level). A cycle could be profitable for a tiny trade but not for a large one if liquidity is limited. The strategy likely first finds cycles based on price alone (small trade assumption). Then, in the simulation phase, it will test a specific trade size to see if it’s still profitable. However, some implementations try to incorporate size into detection – for example, using not just the best price but maybe a slight impact. A simpler approach (likely used here) is: find any positive cycle on price basis, then later determine how much can be exploited from it.
14. 
    Output of Detection: When a cycle is found, the strategy will construct a TradingOpportunity object (or similar) that includes details of that cycle[19]. For instance, the opportunity might contain:
15. 
    The exchange on which this arbitrage exists (e.g., "Raydium").
16. 
    The ordered list of trades: e.g., SOL -> USDC, USDC -> BONK, BONK -> SOL.
17. 
    The expected profit ratio (say 1.02 meaning +2%) and maybe the absolute profit if a certain amount is traded.
18. 
    Possibly the suggested trade amount (it might fill this in after simulation).
19. 
    A confidence or score (some measure of how safe it thinks this is, based on slippage or time).
20. 
    Any other metadata (like which pools or market addresses are involved). The detection step identifies the tokens and exchange; further steps will refine the amounts.
21. 
    Speed considerations: Solana’s block time is around 400-600ms on average, and prices can change each block. The strategy runs continuously (TradeMonitor's MonitoringInterval might be, say, 5 seconds by default[20]). That means every few seconds it recomputes these cycles. The detection needs to be fast enough to finish within that interval (or ideally much faster, to then allow time for execution). If using the graph negative-cycle method, that’s quite fast (Bellman-Ford is O(VE), which for, say, 50 tokens and maybe 100 edges ~ 50100 = 5000 relaxations per run, trivial). If brute force triple nested, as discussed, it's also okay for moderately sized lists. In C#, both approaches are fine. The developer should ensure that the code avoids unnecessary allocations or extremely heavy operations in the inner loops. Possibly, the strategy might parallelize parts of the search if on a multi-core system, though synchronization overhead might not be worth it unless N is large.
22. 
    Dealing with stale data: The exchange data should all be roughly from the same time. The platform likely fetches market data from all exchanges and then passes a consolidated MarketData object to the strategy. That data might have an array of order books or pool states. It's important that the strategy uses a snapshot of prices that are as synchronized as possible. If Raydium data is from now and Orca data is from 3 seconds ago, a cross-exchange comparison might be slightly off. If the strategy confines to one exchange, this is less of an issue (just need the internal pairs of that exchange at that snapshot). In any case, the time between data retrieval and decision is small. The strategy likely performs detection in memory and then immediately, if an opportunity is found, proceeds to execution. The sooner it finds it, the better before prices shift.
23. 
    Multi-cycle management: It's possible multiple distinct cycles are profitable at once. For example, SOL->USDC->BONK->SOL and SOL->USDC->mSOL->SOL could both yield profit simultaneously. The strategy might either choose the best one or potentially return one opportunity per tick. The TradeMonitor bot may be configured to only execute one trade at a time (MaxConcurrentTrades: 1 by default)[21], so even if multiple are found, it would pick one (perhaps the highest profit or highest confidence). If concurrency is allowed, the strategy could output several opportunities. Implementation-wise, since the interface typically returns a single TradingOpportunity (or null)[22], it probably either picks the top opportunity or cycles through them one by one in subsequent ticks. A developer might implement logic like: sort found loops by profit, and take the best one to return this tick.
24. 
    Logging and Traceability: During development or debugging, it is helpful for the cycle detection to log what it's checking. For instance, if using triple loops, logging something for each combination would be too much. Instead, one might log when a profitable cycle is found: e.g., "Detected arbitrage loop: SOL->USDT->mSOL->SOL, rate=1.008 (~0.8% profit)". This helps verify that detection works. Also, logging when none found ("No arb found this tick") can reassure that it's running. Since the user reading this is a developer, it's good to mention that the code should handle edge cases (like division by zero if a price is missing, etc.) and ensure numerical stability (floating point vs decimal for currency calculations; using decimal might be safer for precise financial calcs).

    In conclusion, the cycle detection uses either algorithmic graph methods or brute-force search to find any set of three tokens that yields a positive return to the start token. It leverages the exchange-provided rates (already accounting for fees). Once a candidate cycle is found, the strategy moves on to simulate the trade with a specific size and then prepare the execution plan. The detection mechanism is the brain of the strategy – it identifies the theoretical opportunity – upon which the subsequent steps (simulation and execution) act.

    
    
    Simulation, Slippage, and Fallback Handling

    Once a potential arbitrage cycle is identified by the strategy's detection algorithm, the next critical step is to simulate the trade and account for real-world execution factors such as slippage. The strategy doesn't blindly execute based on theoretical rates; it performs a more granular simulation of the cycle with a specific trade size to ensure that the opportunity is truly profitable when trade impact and fees are considered. Additionally, the strategy incorporates mechanisms to handle or avoid failures — what we can call fallback strategies, ensuring that if things don't go as planned, losses are mitigated or the attempt is aborted safely.

    Here’s how simulation, slippage, and fallback are managed:
1. 
    Trade Simulation: For the cycle (A?B?C?A) that was found, the strategy will simulate executing this cycle with a certain amount of the starting token A. Typically, the chosen amount could be:
2. 
    The maximum allowed by MaxTradeAmount (to maximize profit, if the opportunity scales).
3. 
    Or a smaller amount if liquidity is a concern. Some strategies start with a modest amount and potentially scale up if they see it works, but that might be too slow for real-time arb.
4. 
    It might also use the MinTradeAmount as a floor for simulation, but usually one simulates at a higher amount to see the profit.
5. 
    For simplicity, assume it tries the maximum or a fixed fraction of available balance.

    The simulation involves querying each leg of the trade for what output you’d get for the given input amount: - For A?B: ask the exchange or use order book data to compute how much B would you get for, say, X amount of A. On an AMM, this is a calculation using the pool reserves and formula (taking into account the pool’s slippage due to trade size and the fee). On an order book, this means summing through the order book until X A is sold and seeing average price (and subtracting fees). Many exchanges or aggregators provide a quote API that does this for you. - Then take that output B amount (or slightly less if we plan for safety) and simulate B?C with that whole amount. - Then simulate C?A with the result of that. At the end, you get a simulated output in A. Compare this to the initial A input.

    If the output A_simulated > input A by more than zero (and ideally above the profit threshold, though we likely already ensured threshold in detection stage), then the cycle is confirmed profitable for that trade size. If the output only yields equal or less, then the opportunity might not actually be profitable when considering trade size – it could be that the arbitrage margin was eaten by slippage. In that case, the strategy should discard this opportunity.

    This simulation step effectively includes slippage because when you simulate the trade with a finite amount, you inherently account for the price impact: - For example, maybe at an infinitesimal trade, A?B?C?A was +0.5%. But when trying with $1000, the pools shift and you only break even. Simulation catches that. - The strategy might simulate at multiple sizes to find an optimal amount (this is advanced; e.g., one could try a binary search on trade size to maximize profit). However, given the time constraints, it's likely a single simulation at a chosen size is done. - In high-risk mode, maybe it just goes with max size and hopes for the best; in low-risk, maybe it uses a smaller size deliberately.
1. 
    Slippage Calculation and Tolerance: Slippage refers to how much worse the actual execution price can be compared to the current price due to the trade itself or due to market movement. The strategy deals with slippage in a couple of ways:
2. 
    Pre-trade estimation: The simulation above essentially calculates expected slippage from the order book/pool given the trade size. If the resulting profit margin after this expected slippage is below threshold, the trade is not taken.
3. 
    Slippage Tolerance Setting: When constructing the actual trade instructions, the strategy will include a slippage limit. For AMM swaps on Solana, this is usually done by specifying a minimum acceptable output amount for each swap (if the swap yields less than that, the transaction will fail). For example, if the strategy expects 50 USDC for 1 SOL, with a tolerance of 1%, it might set the swap's minimum output to 49.5 USDC. That way, if the price slips more than 1%, the swap will not execute and the transaction will abort (or the failing swap can cause whole TX to abort if structured atomically).
4. 
    TradeMonitor risk management explicitly highlights Slippage Protection as a feature[3]. This likely means the platform requires a slippage parameter on trade execution calls, or the strategy itself implements it. The strategy likely uses the tolerance from StrategyContext (which we described in risk profiles) to set these limits on each leg.
5. 
    Post-trade check: After execution (if we get there), the strategy can compare expected vs actual outcome. If a trade went through but yielded less profit than anticipated (maybe still positive but lower), it might log that slippage occurred. If it yielded a loss, that is a bigger problem—likely means slippage or price move beyond tolerance (should not happen if tolerance was enforced, unless we set tolerance too high or there was some partial fill scenario).
6. 
    Dynamic adjustment: If repeated trades on a certain pool consistently slip, the strategy might adapt by either reducing trade size for that pool or increasing threshold for that type of cycle. This isn’t explicitly stated but is a possible enhancement for a learning strategy.

    The main point is the strategy won’t execute unless the slippage-adjusted simulation still shows profit. It abandons routes with excessive slippage[6] – e.g., "route abandonment on excessive slippage" means if during simulation we see that executing would require > tolerance slippage, we simply do not proceed with that opportunity.
1. 
    Fallback / Failure Handling: Despite careful planning, things can go wrong during execution:
2. 
    Concurrent Market Movements: Between the time of detection and the actual transaction being sent and confirmed (which could be a second or two), prices might change due to other traders or bots (including competing arbitrage bots). It’s possible the arbitrage closes or reverses, meaning by the time our transaction executes, it’s no longer profitable or even results in less output.
3. 
    Partial Fills / Order Fails: On an AMM, you always get a fill (with slippage). On an order book (Serum via Raydium), if our order doesn’t get fully filled at expected price, we might end up with some leftover or need to fill at worse price, etc. However, Serum trades can be set as IOC (Immediate or Cancel) for example, and we might get a partial fill then cancel. That would break the triangle sequence because you didn’t convert full amount to next token. Ideally, in triangular arb, you want each leg to execute fully and atomically.
4. 
    Atomic Execution vs Sequence: A critical design choice – if possible, execute all three legs as a single atomic transaction. On Solana, this is feasible by composing instructions: you can have an instruction to swap A->B on DEX program 1, then B->C on program 2, then C->A on program 3, all in one Solana transaction. If any leg fails (due to slippage limit or no liquidity), the whole transaction fails (and state rolls back). This is the safest approach (no partial completion risk). The downside is it’s complex to implement and you need to gather all instructions and sign once. Jupiter aggregator could potentially handle multi-hop but usually from input to output token (here input and output are same, which is unusual, but one could trick it by going A->B->C and then separately C->A, though Jupiter might not handle returning to A in one call).
5. 
    If not atomic, the strategy might do it leg by leg: trade A->B, then check result, then trade B->C, etc. This is risky because after the first trade, if the opportunity vanishes, you are stuck with token B and can't complete the cycle without a loss. Thus, a robust arbitrage bot either goes atomic or uses a flash loan style (borrow A, do trades, return A) to ensure no exposure – but on Solana, flash loans aren't as common as on Ethereum, though there are some protocols.
6. 
    Given TradeMonitor’s design, it's likely they aim for atomic execution of the cycle if possible, especially since it's all on one chain. If they integrated with Jupiter, perhaps they rely on Jupiter to do multi-hop (though Jupiter typically returns the result of one round trip, might not directly support starting and ending same token in one call).
7. 
    Fallback if transaction fails: Suppose we attempted an atomic transaction for the triangle and it fails (maybe because slippage limit triggered or one instruction ran out of compute). In that case, nothing is lost (the transaction didn’t execute). The strategy will log the failure. It might increment a counter and possibly widen slippage tolerance next time or lower trade size if it suspects that’s why it failed (these adjustments would be manually configured or part of risk profile toggling).
8. 
    If we attempted sequential execution and, say, the second leg fails or yields less than expected such that proceeding is a loss, the strategy must decide how to unwind. The safest fallback is: once you have done A->B and B->C, if C->A is now unfavorable, you still hold C. You could either:

    Immediately convert C back to A (undo the last step, which would lock in a small loss but get back to the start asset to avoid exposure).

    Or convert C to stablecoin or something to reduce risk and then stop (basically cut losses).

    Or hold C and wait for a better moment (not advisable with volatile assets).
9. 
    This scenario should ideally be avoided by design. A properly engineered strategy will either do it atomically or not at all. If atomic execution is not implemented, then the strategy truly is high risk because partial execution risk is real (and then it's not "riskless arbitrage" anymore). The mention in TradeMonitor’s context of "riskless arbitrage" is usually assuming atomic or guaranteed completion, but in practice, there is always execution risk[23].
10. 
    TradeMonitor’s risk features like Confidence Scoring[3] likely incorporate the probability of successful execution. A high confidence might indicate that even if slightly delayed, the opportunity is likely to remain. The strategy could use this to decide whether to attempt or not.
11. 
    Fallback Example: If the bot started with 10 SOL and planned SOL?USDC?BONK?SOL, and after SOL?USDC?BONK you have BONK but the final BONK?SOL price moved, a fallback might be to convert BONK back to USDC immediately on the best available route to minimize further losses (maybe the aggregator could find best path to USDC or SOL). This essentially ends the cycle with possibly less SOL than started (a loss), but at least you don't hold BONK which could drop further. The platform might also have an alert or circuit breaker to stop trading after such an incident.
12. 
    In code, implementing such fallback is complex. The simpler approach is "fail early". That means incorporate as much as possible into one transaction or at least one function call. Many Solana arbitrage bots use one transaction with multiple instructions for all swaps. If any leg’s condition isn’t met, the whole thing fails (and since you started and ended with the same token account, you basically end up where you began).
13. 
    The TradeMonitor might not yet have a fully atomic implementation but given it's a serious platform, they likely aim for that. The documentation doesn't explicitly describe flash loans or atomic bundling, but it mentions “MaxExecutionTimeSeconds” which implies sequential execution possibly (like allow up to X seconds, maybe because they do one after the other). However, it could also include waiting for transaction confirmation in atomic case.
14. 
    Execution via Platform Services: When the strategy finalizes that “Yes, this cycle is profitable and safe to execute”, it will prepare the output for the bot:
15. 
    It creates a TradingOpportunity or TradeInstructions object describing the actions[19]. For example, this could contain:

    Trade 1: Exchange=Raydium, Swap SOL -> USDC, amount = X SOL, expected output ~ Y USDC.

    Trade 2: Exchange=Raydium, Swap USDC -> BONK, amount = Y USDC, expected output ~ Z BONK.

    Trade 3: Exchange=Raydium, Swap BONK -> SOL, amount = Z BONK, expected output ~ X*(1+profit) SOL.

    Also include slippage limits for each swap (like minimum outputs).

    Possibly a flag that these should be executed together (if the bot can batch them).
16. 
    The bot receives this opportunity and passes it to the execution engine, which either:

    If atomic supported: builds one transaction with all instructions and submits.

    If not: executes each in turn. (We'll assume atomic or pseudo-atomic for safety).
17. 
    The strategy might also specify MaxExecutionTimeSeconds for the execution context – meaning if this trade isn't completed in that time, treat it as failed. The platform likely monitors the time from signal to execution finish.
18. 
    Monitoring and Fallback Post-Execution: After sending the trade, if it executes successfully, great. If it fails, the strategy should be aware. The platform might throw an exception or return a failure status which the strategy can catch. On failure:
19. 
    It might log the failure reason (e.g., "Swap failed due to insufficient output - slippage limit hit"). This indicates that between simulation and execution, price moved enough to nullify profit, so the trade was aborted by the slippage condition. This isn’t a loss (except some minor tx fee), but it is a missed opportunity. The strategy might respond by not immediately retrying the same cycle, since likely competition or market moved. It will just go back to scanning.
20. 
    If partial fills happened (only relevant in non-atomic scenario), the bot would have to do a corrective action as discussed. This could be an automated fallback trade to unwind. The architecture might treat that as a separate risk management action outside the strategy (for example, a stop-loss mechanism might trigger to sell any inventory of a token that wasn't intended to be held).
21. 
    Circuit breakers: If multiple failures happen, the strategy or bot might trigger a pause. For example, if 5 arbitrage attempts in a row all failed due to slippage or timing, it could mean the bot is consistently too slow or threshold too low. A circuit breaker could then stop the strategy for a while, or increase the threshold automatically. TradeMonitor mentions “Circuit Breakers: Automatic trading suspension under extreme conditions”[3], which likely covers scenarios of repeated failure or unexpected losses. The strategy should heed any signals from such a system (like if the bot says stop, it should stop).
22. 
    In a high-risk profile, maybe the strategy ignores a few fails and keeps going; in low-risk, even one fail might cause re-evaluation (since low-risk expects near perfection).
23. 
    Fees and Costs: The simulation step also should subtract any fixed fees. On Solana, the transaction fee is negligible ($0.0001), so it’s fine to ignore in profit calc. But there are platform fees possibly (Jupiter may charge a small fee on swaps, etc., or if using Serum, taker fees). These should be part of the simulation. If not, at least the profit threshold should be set high enough to cover them.
24. 
    If the strategy uses Jupiter for execution, Jupiter’s API returns the expected output after all fees (including its own). So simulation via Jupiter API inherently accounts for that.
25. 
    If doing manual Serum trades, one would subtract fee (like 0.22% taker fee or so).
26. 
    Example: Consider the earlier found cycle SOL?USDC?BONK?SOL. Suppose:
27. 
    The strategy found that 1 SOL could yield 1.01 SOL (1% profit) theoretically.
28. 
    It decides to trade 100 SOL (just an example of a chosen size).
29. 
    Simulation:

    If I swap 100 SOL to USDC on Raydium, what's the USDC? Raydium API says you get 2500 USDC (assuming 1 SOL ~ 25 USDC, slight slippage to maybe 24.5 each).

    Now 2500 USDC to BONK on Raydium, maybe BONK price is such that yields 1,000,000 BONK (just hypothetical).

    Now 1,000,000 BONK to SOL, you might expect ~101 SOL if the rates hold.

    But taking into account pool slippage on that last conversion of a million BONK to SOL, maybe actually you'd get 99 SOL if the pool is shallow. Oops, that would be a loss versus starting 100 SOL.

    The simulation would catch that: with 100 SOL trade, end result predicted is 99 SOL (a -1% outcome). Therefore, it discards this cycle at that size.

    It might then either drop it entirely or try a smaller amount like 50 SOL. Maybe with 50 SOL, end result predicted is 50.5 SOL ( +1%). If so, it might proceed with 50 SOL as the trade size. Some strategies do optimize the amount to maximize profit without flipping to loss. Others simply have to either take it or leave it. It's possible TradeMonitor’s strategy simply always uses MaxTradeAmount or a fixed fraction and doesn’t try multiple sizes per tick due to time.
30. 
    It then proceeds with 50 SOL. It sets slippage tolerance say 0.5%. Each swap gets a limit:

    SOL->USDC must yield at least 2475 USDC (0.5% less than 2500 expected),

    USDC->BONK must yield at least 990,000 BONK (if expected 1,000,000),

    BONK->SOL must yield at least 50.25 SOL (0.5% less than 50.5 expected). If any of these conditions fail, the transaction will fail (if atomic).
31. 
    The trade is sent. If it succeeds, great, maybe we got 50.4 SOL back (some slippage happened but still profit 0.4 SOL). If it fails, nothing happens (50 SOL returns to wallet intact because transaction atomic).
32. 
    If it partially executed (non-atomic), say SOL->USDC happened but USDC->BONK failed, then we have USDC. The bot would quickly swap USDC back to SOL on the market (maybe end up with 49 SOL due to that roundtrip and slippage, a -1 SOL loss). That would trigger a risk event. But again, we aim to avoid that via atomic execution.
33. 
    Performance of Simulation: The simulation queries add a bit of overhead. If the strategy has to query an API for each leg for each candidate cycle, that could be slow. Instead, it likely has local order book snapshots or formula for AMM to compute outputs quickly. Jupiter API could be used to simulate entire route in one call, which is convenient but calling it for every possible cycle would be extremely slow. So more likely:
34. 
    Strategy finds a cycle using static prices (like best rates or mid prices).
35. 
    For the one cycle it wants to execute, it then calls the exchange/aggregator for a live quote for that amount to simulate precisely.
36. 
    This is done only for the chosen cycle, not for all candidate cycles. So one external call per tick at most (plus initial data fetches).
37. 
    That is manageable within a second or two usually. Jupiter’s quote API for example is quite fast (<100ms typical).
38. 
    Fallback Summary: The fallback philosophy is: Plan for the worst, hope for the best. By simulating and enforcing slippage limits, the strategy ensures that if the market moves unfavorably, the trade will abort rather than execute a bad deal[5][6]. This is the primary fallback – essentially not executing if conditions aren't met (fail-safe). In cases where something does go wrong mid-execution, the fallback is to exit the cycle ASAP and cut losses (via reverse trade, etc.), which likely is handled by the platform’s risk management or should be implemented carefully if doing stepwise execution. In any event, after any failure or major slippage event, the strategy will reevaluate or wait for the next tick to try again, possibly with adjusted parameters if it's adaptive.

    Developers should test the strategy in scenarios with artificially introduced slippage or price movement to ensure these safeguards work. For instance, simulate that between detection and execution, the price shifts and the transaction indeed fails safely. Also test an atomic failure to confirm funds remain safe. Logging the outcome of each trade (success, fail reason, profit realized) is invaluable for monitoring the strategy’s performance and tweaking the slippage tolerances and profit thresholds accordingly.

    
    
    Output Returned to the Bot per Tick

    The final result of the strategy’s analysis each tick (iteration) is communicated back to the TradeMonitor bot in the form of a trading opportunity output. In implementation terms, after the strategy runs its analysis on the current market data, it will return either an object describing a profitable arbitrage trade or null if no opportunity is found[22]. This output is then consumed by the bot which handles execution and logging of trades.

    Here's what that output contains and how it’s structured:

    TradingOpportunity Object: The strategy constructs an instance of a TradingOpportunity (or similarly named) object when it finds a valid arbitrage. This object acts like a "trade signal" for the bot. It includes all the details needed to execute the strategy:

    Strategy Name/Type: It may carry an identifier indicating this is a triangular arbitrage opportunity (in case the bot handles multiple strategy types uniformly, it knows how to treat this).

    Exchange Context: Which exchange or exchanges the trade will use. For a single-exchange triangle, this might be one field (e.g., Exchange = ORCA). If multi-exchange, it might list each leg’s exchange. Given that we often constrain to one exchange per triangle, it can be a single field.

    Trade Path (Cycle): The sequence of token conversions. For example, a field or list enumerating something like: [ {"from": "SOL", "to": "USDC", "via": "Orca"}, {"from": "USDC", "to": "BONK", "via": "Orca"}, {"from": "BONK", "to": "SOL", "via": "Orca"} ]. This explicitly tells the bot the route: SOL to USDC, then USDC to BONK, then BONK back to SOL, all via Orca in this example. In code, it might be structured as an array of trade instructions.

    Amounts for Each Leg: The object will specify how much of the source token to trade in the first leg, and that it should use the full output of each leg as the input to the next. For instance: start with amount_in = 50 SOL for SOL->USDC. (The bot or execution service will then know to take 50 SOL from the wallet). After that, for USDC->BONK, amount_in = <use previous output> might be implied rather than explicitly stated, but it could also be explicitly set if the simulation predicted e.g. 1200 USDC from 50 SOL, then it might say 1200 USDC as input for leg2. Leg3 similarly uses output of leg2. The final expected output might be given (like expected ~51 SOL).

    Profit Estimate: The opportunity object likely includes the estimated profit or rate. E.g., a field ExpectedProfit = 2.0 SOL (in absolute terms) or ProfitPercent = 4%. This is useful for logging and for the bot to perhaps choose between multiple opportunities. It might also carry a Confidence score or Quality metric. The strategy computes this when analyzing risk. A high confidence might be if the order books are deep and profit margin is large; low confidence if very tight margin or data uncertainty. The bot could decide not to execute low confidence signals if configured so.

    Slippage Conditions: If not directly encoded in each leg, there might be an overall field for slippage tolerance that the execution service will apply to the trades. However, since each swap can have its own tolerance (especially if different exchanges or pools), the opportunity might embed per-leg minimum outputs or acceptable price limits. The execution service will use these to construct actual transaction instructions with slippage guard (e.g., Serum limit orders or AMM swap instruction parameters).

    Metadata: There might be additional metadata like timestamps, identifiers for tracking, or maybe an ID of the opportunity for logging. Possibly which wallet to use if the bot had multiple (though typically each bot has one wallet configured).

    Null When No Opportunity: If the strategy searches and finds nothing that meets criteria, it returns null (or an empty result)[22]. The bot interprets this as "do nothing this cycle". The TradeMonitor framework likely logs that no trade was taken, or simply waits until the next tick. This design prevents the bot from acting on non-existent signals and is a normal outcome most of the time (arbitrage is not always present).

    One Opportunity per Tick: As mentioned, even if multiple cycles are profitable, usually the strategy will only return one at a time. This is because the bot typically executes one trade, then goes back to scanning. There could be exceptions if MaxConcurrentTrades > 1, but implementing multiple simultaneous outputs would likely mean returning a list of opportunities. If the interface doesn’t support that, the strategy might choose the best cycle and output that. The remaining opportunities could be missed or picked up on subsequent ticks if they persist.

    Opportunity Generation Step: In the strategy’s workflow, after identifying and simulating a viable arbitrage, there’s an "Opportunity Generation" step where the strategy converts the raw finding into the formal output object with all details[19]. According to the architecture documentation:

    “Viable opportunities are converted to opportunity objects; trading paths and instructions are defined; expected outcomes are calculated; execution parameters are specified”[19]. This describes exactly what the strategy is doing at this stage. It takes the theoretical cycle, pairs it with the chosen trade amount and results from simulation, and formulates the precise steps with their execution parameters (like limit prices).

    Once that is done, it attaches it to the result and hands it to the bot.

    Integration with Command Channel: The bot, upon receiving the opportunity, might encapsulate it into a command (Trade Command) to send to the execution pipeline (TradeMonitor uses a command pattern for execution)[24]. This is a behind-the-scenes detail, but basically the TradingOpportunity becomes a TradeInstructionCommand or similar which the command channel processes asynchronously. The strategy doesn’t need to manage that; it simply needs to supply the data in the right format.

    Example Output: For clarity, let's construct a hypothetical output in pseudo-form:

    {
  "Strategy": "TriangularArbitrage",
  "Exchange": "RAYDIUM",
  "Cycle": ["SOL", "USDC", "MSOL", "SOL"],
  "AmountIn": 10.0,
  "ExpectedAmountOut": 10.3,
  "ExpectedProfit": 0.3,
  "ProfitPct": 0.03,
  "Instructions": [
     {"market": "SOL/USDC", "side": "sell", "amount": 10.0, "min_out": 240, "out_token": "USDC"},
     {"market": "mSOL/USDC", "side": "buy", "amount": 240, "min_out": 12, "out_token": "mSOL"},
     {"market": "mSOL/SOL", "side": "sell", "amount": 12, "min_out": 10.3, "out_token": "SOL"}
  ]
}

    This example indicates: Swap 10 SOL to USDC (expect ~240 USDC, allow slippage maybe min_out 238 USDC which is 0.5% less), then swap USDC to mSOL (buying mSOL with 240 USDC, expect ~12 mSOL, allow maybe 11.9 mSOL min), then swap mSOL back to SOL (expect ~10.3 SOL, min_out say 10.2 SOL). The profit is ~0.3 SOL (3%). The bot would then carry these out. (Note: This format is illustrative; the actual implementation might differ.)

    No Opportunity Example: If no triangle was found or all found were unprofitable after simulation, the strategy returns null. The bot in that tick simply does nothing (maybe prints "No arbitrage found this cycle" in logs and waits until the next interval to try again).

    Timeliness of Output: The strategy tries to output as quickly as possible after receiving data. If the monitoring interval is, say, 5 seconds, it means every 5 seconds new data is fetched and AnalyzeMarketAsync is called. That method should ideally complete in much less than 5 seconds. When it returns the opportunity, the bot will immediately attempt execution. In a fast-moving market, seconds matter; thus the output is delivered promptly. If the strategy took so long that by the time the bot tries to execute it's too late, the slippage controls will catch that, but it's better to be fast and succeed. As a developer, ensure that building the output object and any final computations are not introducing significant latency.

    Logging/Notification: The platform likely logs the details of any returned opportunity (for audit and debugging). Also, the Alert System might send a notification when a trading opportunity is identified or executed[25]. For example, if configured, it might send a message "Arbitrage trade executed: SOL->USDC->BONK->SOL, Profit 0.5 SOL". The strategy itself doesn't handle notifications, but by returning the opportunity with all data, the higher-level bot or monitoring system can generate those alerts.

    In essence, the output per tick is the culmination of the strategy’s decision: it’s either a well-defined arbitrage trade ready to execute, including all the needed specifics, or a signal that no trade should be made. By encapsulating the trade details in a structured object, the strategy cleanly hands off the execution to the TradeMonitor’s trading bot infrastructure. This separation of concerns (detection vs execution) makes the system robust and allows each component to be tested independently.

    Developers should verify that the mapping from strategy output to execution is correct – any mismatch (like wrong token symbols, or confusion of base/quote in an order instruction) can lead to failed trades. Using the standardized token symbols and exchange identifiers exactly as expected by the exchange services is critical. Usually, the exchange integrations have an internal mapping (like an enum or constant for "SOL", "USDC", etc., and market IDs). The strategy probably uses those consistently, since the market data provided would be tagged with the same identifiers.

    Finally, after the bot processes the output (whether it executes a trade or not), the cycle repeats: new data, new analysis, new output. The strategy doesn't maintain long state between ticks except perhaps some cached token list or previous cycle info if needed. Each tick’s output is fresh and based on current data.

    
    
    Examples of Triangular Arbitrage Cycles (For Illustration Only)

    To make the strategy more concrete, let's walk through a couple of illustrative examples of triangular arbitrage scenarios. These examples are simplified and use hypothetical numbers for clarity. They are for illustration only – actual market conditions will vary, and these are not recommendations but rather demonstrations of how the strategy identifies and executes cycles.

    
    Example 1: SOL/USDC/BONK Cycle

    Imagine the following situation on a Solana DEX (say Raydium): - There is a pool for SOL/USDC with an exchange rate implying 1 SOL = 25 USDC (this is roughly the market price; we'll use 25 for easy math). - There is a pool for BONK/USDC where 1 BONK = 0.00025 USDC (which means 1 USDC = 4000 BONK; BONK is a memecoin). - There is a pool for SOL/BONK with a rate 1 SOL = 100000 BONK.

    At first glance, are these consistent? Let's check the implied cross rates: - From SOL?USDC?BONK: 1 SOL = 25 USDC, and 1 USDC = 4000 BONK, so 1 SOL = 25 * 4000 = 100000 BONK. - The SOL/BONK pool says 1 SOL = 100000 BONK, which exactly matches that calculation. So in this case, there is no arbitrage (the prices are in equilibrium).

    Now suppose BONK's price moves on one pool but not the other: - The BONK/USDC pool now is such that 1 USDC = 4200 BONK (BONK got cheaper relative to USDC, maybe someone sold BONK for USDC heavily). - SOL/USDC remains 1 SOL = 25 USDC. - SOL/BONK pool hasn't adjusted yet (less trading there perhaps), still at 1 SOL = 100000 BONK.

    Now the rates imply: - SOL?USDC?BONK: 1 SOL -> 25 USDC -> 25 * 4200 = 105000 BONK. - SOL/BONK direct: 1 SOL -> 100000 BONK.

    This means by trading through USDC, 1 SOL could get you 105000 BONK, which is more BONK than you'd get directly via the SOL/BONK pool (100000). So an arbitrage exists: - Start with 1 SOL. - Swap 1 SOL to 25 USDC (via SOL/USDC pool). - Swap 25 USDC to 105000 BONK (via BONK/USDC pool, because BONK is cheap in USDC terms now). - Now you have 105000 BONK. - Swap 105000 BONK back to SOL via the SOL/BONK pool. According to the pool's rate (1 SOL = 100000 BONK), 105000 BONK will convert to 1.05 SOL (since 100000 BONK gives 1 SOL, 105000 gives 1.05 SOL).

    You started with 1 SOL and ended with ~1.05 SOL – a 5% profit in one cycle.

    The strategy would detect this: - It sees the cycle SOL -> USDC -> BONK -> SOL and calculates the product of conversion rates: (SOL?USDC = 25, USDC?BONK = 4200, BONK?SOL = 1/100000 = 0.00001). Multiply: 25 * 4200 * 0.00001 = 1.05, which is > 1. - It exceeds the minimum profit threshold (assuming it's set below 5%). So it qualifies. - The strategy then simulates with, say, some SOL amount. If liquidity is sufficient, it might do a large amount. Let's say it trades 10 SOL: - 10 SOL -> 250 USDC. - 250 USDC -> 1,050,000 BONK (since rate may slightly change if we buy a lot of BONK; but assume pool can handle it). - 1,050,000 BONK -> ~10.5 SOL. - Looks good, still ~5% profit (maybe slightly less if price impact considered, but let's assume it's ~10.45 SOL net after fees). - It packages this opportunity: "Exchange: Raydium, Cycle: SOL-USDC-BONK-SOL, Trade 10 SOL for an expected 10.45 SOL (profit 0.45 SOL ~ 4.5%)." - The bot executes this: it will do those swaps (possibly all in one transaction or sequentially very fast). - Because we set slippage tolerance, if during execution someone else also arbitraged and BONK/USDC moved to 4000 (no arb left), our last swap BONK->SOL might only yield 10 SOL back. But with tolerance, if it would yield less than, say, 10.3 SOL (a threshold we set), the transaction would abort. Let's say it goes through and we indeed end up with ~10.45 SOL. We realize the profit. - This cycle would then probably close because our trade will move the SOL/BONK price (105000 BONK was taken out for 1.05 SOL, raising that price) and/or the USDC/BONK price (we bought BONK, raising its price back up a bit). So the arbitrage gap shrinks or disappears after the trade. - The strategy might not find it next tick (market now balanced until another disturbance).

    (Illustration note: This example simplifies numbers and assumes we could do it all on Raydium. In reality, SOL/BONK might be a Serum order book market rather than an AMM pool; but concept is same – different relative pricing).

    
    
    Example 2: Stablecoin Triangle (USDC/USDT/SOL)

    Not all arbitrages involve obscure tokens; sometimes even stablecoins and major tokens create loops. Consider: - USDC/USDT pool: 1 USDC = 1.002 USDT (USDT is trading at a slight discount to USDC, maybe USDT=0.998 USD, USDC=1 USD). So you get a tiny bit more USDT for USDC. - SOL/USDC market: 1 SOL = 25 USDC (as before). - SOL/USDT market: 1 SOL = 26 USDT. (Perhaps the SOL/USDT market is less arbitraged or someone pumped SOL price in USDT terms).

    These three form a triangle: SOL, USDC, USDT. Let's see the cycle SOL -> USDT -> USDC -> SOL: - Start with 1 SOL. - Swap 1 SOL to USDT (via SOL/USDT market): you get 26 USDT for 1 SOL (because SOL is valued higher in USDT). - Now swap 26 USDT to USDC (via the USDC/USDT pool): Given 1 USDC = 1.002 USDT, or inversely 1 USDT = 0.998 USDC. So 26 USDT would convert to about 25.948 USDC (26 * 0.998). - Now swap 25.948 USDC to SOL (via SOL/USDC market at 25 USDC/SOL): 25.948 USDC yields approximately 1.0379 SOL (since 25 USDC gives 1 SOL, 25.948 gives ~1.0379). - End result: ~1.0379 SOL from the original 1 SOL, about a 3.79% profit.

    The strategy detection: - SOL -> USDT: rate = 26.0 - USDT -> USDC: rate = 0.998 (meaning per 1 USDT how many USDC; or we can do 1/1.002 = 0.998) - USDC -> SOL: rate = 1/25 = 0.04 - Multiply: 26 * 0.998 * 0.04 = 1.038 (approximately), >1, good. - It identifies SOL-USDT-USDC-SOL loop as profitable. If threshold is 0.5%, 3.8% is well above. - Simulation: This one might be on different platforms (maybe SOL/USDT is on Serum via Raydium, USDC/USDT might be on Saber or Mercurial, SOL/USDC on Serum via Raydium). If our strategy only does one exchange at a time, it's tricky because this loop spans markets possibly on different protocols. However, Jupiter aggregator could execute it by routing through appropriate pools. The strategy could see this across exchanges if it considers cross-exchange triangular arb. If not, maybe both SOL/USDC and SOL/USDT are on the same exchange (Serum order book) and USDC/USDT is on a stable swap AMM. If Jupiter aggregator is used, you could actually do SOL->USDT on Serum, then USDT->USDC on a stable pool, then USDC->SOL on Serum, all in one transaction if orchestrated. - The strategy might treat Jupiter as the venue to do multi-hop. So it could output an opportunity like: "Use Jupiter to swap 1 SOL -> ... -> SOL through [SOL->USDT, USDT->USDC, USDC->SOL] route." - Execution yields ~3.7% profit. Because these are highly liquid assets (SOL and stables), you might even push a large volume and it still works until someone fixes it. In reality, a discrepancy like 4% between SOL/USDC and SOL/USDT would be arbitraged out quickly by bots (which is exactly what our bot is doing). - After execution, SOL price vs USDT or USDC would converge (our trade will sell USDT for USDC and buy SOL with USDC, which pushes SOL/USDT down and SOL/USDC up, closing the gap). - This example shows even without a "weird" token, triangles can form due to slight differences in how assets trade against different bases. - It's also a scenario of stablecoin arbitrage: effectively noticing USDT is slightly cheaper than USDC and exploiting it via SOL.

    In a real scenario, the profit might be much smaller (maybe 0.2% difference), but for large volumes that can be worth it since SOL and stable pools are deep.

    
    
    Example 3: Multi-DEX Triangle (illustration of cross-exchange, though strategy might not do this)

    (This is to illustrate conceptually, even if the TriangularArbitrageStrategy focuses on single exchange, it's good to understand possible cross-exchange case.)

    Suppose: - On Orca, there is a pool SOL/USDC at 25 USDC per SOL. - On Raydium, there is a pool SOL/BTC (wrapped Bitcoin on Solana) where 1 SOL = 0.0015 BTC. - Also on Raydium (Serum), BTC/USDC order book implies 1 BTC = 17000 USDC (market a bit outdated or low liquidity there). Now: - 1 SOL on Orca = 25 USDC. - 25 USDC could buy some BTC if we go via the BTC market: 25 USDC -> (1/17000)*25 = 0.0014705 BTC on Raydium. - 0.0014705 BTC can buy SOL via SOL/BTC pool on Raydium: at 1 SOL = 0.0015 BTC, that amount of BTC would get 0.9803 SOL (because we don't have enough BTC for a full SOL). This yields less SOL (0.98) than started (1), so that path is not profitable.

    Reverse the direction: - Start with BTC perhaps. But let's see if another arrangement yields profit: Given the disparity: Raydium says 1 BTC = 17000 USDC (maybe high), but if on some exchange 1 BTC = 16500 USDC, there could be arb. A triangle might be BTC -> USDC on one exchange, USDC -> SOL on one, SOL -> BTC on another. It gets complicated to think manually. The algorithm would find if any combination yields >1.

    Imagine: - On Raydium: 1 BTC = 17000 USDC (so USDC/BTC price = 17000). - On Orca: 1 SOL = 25 USDC (so SOL/USDC price = 25). - On Orca or somewhere: 1 BTC = 1000 SOL (which would imply 1 BTC = 1000*25 = 25000 USDC if through SOL route). If actually there was an exchange path such that 1 BTC could convert to more USDC by going through SOL than directly, that’s an arbitrage. For instance: BTC -> SOL (Raydium through BTC/SOL if existed) SOL -> USDC (Orca) USDC -> BTC (Raydium USDC/BTC) Given our numbers above: If 1 BTC on Raydium could get 1000 SOL (that would mean price of SOL in BTC is 0.001 BTC per SOL, which is consistent with 1 SOL = 0.001 BTC? Actually 0.0015 was earlier assumption, let's say on one it's 0.0012 to allow arb). Suppose Raydium SOL/BTC: 1 SOL = 0.0012 BTC (so 1 BTC = ~833 SOL). Orca SOL/USDC: 1 SOL = 25 USDC, so 833 SOL = 20825 USDC. Raydium BTC/USDC: 1 BTC = 17000 USDC. Now: - 1 BTC -> 833 SOL (Raydium SOL/BTC) - 833 SOL -> 20825 USDC (Orca SOL/USDC) - 20825 USDC -> 1.225 BTC (Raydium USDC/BTC, because at 17000 per BTC, 20825 USDC buys ~1.225 BTC). End: 1.225 BTC from 1 BTC, ~22.5% profit. That’s huge and would be taken instantly in reality. This spans 2 exchanges (Raydium and Orca). TriangularArb strat focusing on one exchange might not catch it unless using aggregator or cross-logic. But if the strategy were extended, it could find it by including edges from both.

    Anyway, multi-DEX opportunities can exist if a token's relative price differs between platforms. The strategy in question might leave those to the CrossExchangeArbitrage strategy, but it's good to be aware.

    Illustration Summary: In practice, the strategy frequently finds small discrepancies like a few basis points. The examples above used big differences for clarity. The general flow is: - Identify a triangle of tokens (could be [SOL, stable1, stable2], or [SOL, USDC, altcoin], etc.) where the product of conversion rates is > 1. - Trade through that loop to end up with more of the start token. - Each trade in the loop pushes prices in a direction that reduces the arbitrage (self-correcting market). - The strategy must be quicker than competitors to capitalize on the gap. Solana’s speed helps, but many others attempt the same, which is why some opportunities vanish in sub-second timescales. - The TradeMonitor platform's real-time analysis and execution aims to do exactly that with minimal delay[26][27].

    These examples are purely illustrative and simplified. Real markets have more complexity (transaction costs, varying liquidity affecting how much you can trade at the given rate, etc.). But they demonstrate the essence of what the Solana Triangular Arbitrage strategy does: find cycles of trades where a token is effectively undervalued in one market relative to another and exploit that discrepancy by cycling assets around.

    
    
    
    
    

    
    [1] [2] [3] [4] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [13] [15] [20] [21] [25] [26] [27] README.md

    file://file-3qZFZ3NTWdV97ArXw8ndvj

    [5] [6] GitHub - ChangeYourself0613/Solana-Arbitrage-Bot: Solana Arbitrage Bot cross dex like Raydium, Orca, Meteora swap program with rust language architecture using anchor frame work

    https://github.com/ChangeYourself0613/Solana-Arbitrage-Bot

    [12] Jupiter vs Meteora: Which Is the Best Solana DEX?

    https://academy.swissborg.com/en/learn/jupiter-vs-meteora

    [14] [19] [22] [24] Architecture.md

    file://file-X7MnP2Y3K3WAbmTmBtkhyp

    [16] [17] [18] Triangular Arbitrage With Crypto DEX’s: Part Two | by Alex Ford | Coinmonks | Medium

    https://medium.com/coinmonks/triangular-arbitrage-with-crypto-dexs-part-two-f6e6ff66fb87

    [23] Don't waste your time on triangular arbitrage — a novice trader's ...

    https://wire.insiderfinance.io/dont-waste-your-time-on-triangular-arbitrage-a-novice-trader-s-experience-59f15f413962

    
    
  
